# Getting started with Terraform

I have been mucking around with Terraform so that I can learn how it works!

## Usage

### Secrets

To be able to authenticate with AWS, put an access/secret key pair into `secrets.auto.tfvars` like so:

```terraform
access_key = "Access key ID"

secret_key = "Secret access key"
```

### Initialisation

Initialise Terraform, to download the appropriate provider binary, etc:

```bash
terraform init
```

### Tagging with a reasonable kill date

Source the `tag_killdate.sh` script to set a KillDate tag value as an environment variable, which Terraform will pick up:

```bash
. ./tag_killdate.sh
```

### Planning

Have Terraform plan its deployment:

```bash
terraform plan
```

### Deployment

Deploy resources:

```bash
terraform apply
```

### Cleaning up

When the resources are no longer needed, get rid of them:

```bash
terraform destroy
```

## State

Terraform can store state either locally or remotely.

There is a `backend.tf` file which contains a commented config to make use of the Consul demo server.

To start storing state remotely, uncomment the `backend` config and run `terraform init` again.

Follow the prompts to migrate local state to the new remote.

To bring state storage back to local, simply re-commend the `backend` config and run `terraform init` once more.

## Modules

The module for **Consul** is also in use.

A public/private key pair must be in place on AWS. The name it will be looked for under is auto-generated by the scripts, and it follows the same naming prefix convention as other resources described elsewhere.

The path to a local copy of the corresponding private key must also be configured in `secrets.auto.tfvars`. The `consul_instance_private_key_path` key in that file must have the path to said file set as its value.
